hello everyone its Elena and today I'll
share with you guys the SAT dad I shared
a Princeton University as my common
application s name now before I get into
this I just wanna say dad my essay is on
a quite heavy topic but it was a topic
that I wanted to write about because
it's the reason I want to study politics
so I thought it was good to share it
with the University at that point um but
if you're like a super sensitive person
just be warned okay okay so here's the
prompt that I've picked share an essay
has any topic of your choice because I
didn't like any of the problems that the
comment off the kitchen gave me so I was
like I'm gonna do my own thing so here
it is lessons from Hell on Earth have
you ever seen a dead body deformed by
malnutrition and physical violence I
have at the age of 15 it was a man's
body his identity had been reduced to a
number and then looked at his picture
while standing in the maintenance
building of the Dachau concentration
camp his skin did not hide any of his
bones and to cruelty that his body
revealed made me want to look away
standing in a very Hall that welcomed
him to hell on earth I could not be air
to look at him longer than a few seconds
I was overwhelmed by the inhumane crimes
which have been committed in my home
country less than a century ago
our tour guide reminded us of the reason
for which Germany's preserving the
concentration and extermination camps
they serve as a warning sign to future
generations when leaving a camp I looked
back at the huge area and promised
myself that I would never be a bystander
like the people who lived around a
concentration camp then I would stand up
and I would know about injustice no
matter if I would be the only one
standing or if I would be one in a
million
because anyone could become this man
could be made defenseless and tortured
could be stripped after dignity I
started doing research on the word
genocide and its meaning I wanted to
understand what the differences and
similarities of genocide war crimes and
crimes against humanity are I looked for
case studies and realized that one thing
these crimes have in common is that the
international community has failed many
of the victims the number of case
studies have found for these three
crimes in the sec
half of the 20th and 21st century
horrified me I could not understand how
the world could just look away had we
not learned from Dachau from Auschwitz
from Treblinka apparently not in the
process of my research I came across
pictures that make me want to look away
it is hard to look at Curtiss children
who died from gas attacks in Iraq gypsy
women who were raped before being killed
in Rwanda or yes Dedes who are currently
being slaughtered by Isis by looking
away it's dangerous it makes us believe
that the environment we live in is
everyone's normal environment I am a
German who is currently living in Hong
Kong one of the safest cities in the
world I do not fear persecution or a
weak rule of law but too many people do
every person having to fear the
deprivation of any of their human rights
is one too much after having
participated in a refugee simulation of
a closed camp the instructor asked my
group one question how far would you go
to save one of the refugees in such a
camp if they would be your best friend
my answer was clear as far as I'd have
to go many of the people facing human
rights violations do not have someone
who has the means to go as far as they
have to go I want to help them this is
the reason why I want to major in
politics I want to understand how to
make the international community speak
out against perpetrators and deter
charge and punish these crimes I want to
be able to make a change to the
situation of the people whose voices are
not heard by the international community
of states because I want to look at the
picture of the man of death out and be
able to say I did not look away
I learned yeah that's the SAS diminished
Princeton as my comma notification essay
I did changed wording in the sentence
where I say that's the reason why I want
to study blah blah blah because some of
the universities I applied to didn't
offer politics but they called it
political science others offered
International Relations or something
like that so I just changed wording in
order to match the right major but I
would not I submitted the same essay to
all colleges I applied to I noticed this
a bit more heavy content due to
topic of mansae but I do hope that you
guys enjoyed it thank you guys for
watching guys